# FAQ for BBP Spack Usage

## Building Software

<details>
  <summary>Q: How do I build and *load* a piece of software?</summary>

  We'll install `Ed(1)`, the standard editor.

  Make sure you're setup as per [this](https://github.com/BlueBrain/spack#building-software-on-bluebrain5).

  Specifically that you have the `spack` git repo on the `develop` branch,
  and have created and linked the files into `~/.spack/`

      $ spack install ed

  This produces output, and should end with something like:
  `$SPACK_INSTALL_PREFIX/linux-rhel7-x86_64/gcc-6.4.0/ed-1.4-35jlkv`

  One can then run `ed` with

      $SPACK_INSTALL_PREFIX/linux-rhel7-x86_64/gcc-6.4.0/ed-1.4-35jlkv/ed

  More complex packages will have an environment that needs to be setup by
  the module system.
  To find the module that was built, issue:

      $ spack module tcl find --full-path ed

  At which point, you should be able to:

      $ module load $path_from_above
</details>

<details>
  <summary>Q: How do I add/update my package/module versions?</summary>

  We want to add a new version 2.0.0 to `mypackage`.

  Make sure you're setup as per [the instructions](https://github.com/BlueBrain/spack#building-software-on-bluebrain5).

  Change your package recipe to add or update the version specifying the 
  corresponding tag or commit.

      $ spack edit mypackage
      ...
      version('2.0.0', tag='v2.0.0')
      ...

  Then you can edit the packages yaml files depending on the type of
  package (`bbp-packages.yaml`, `external-libraries.yaml`…).

  Assuming `mypackage` is an external library:

      $ vim deploy/packages/external-libraries.yaml

  Under the spec section

      - mypackage@2.0.0

  After that you should edit the module file that will be at
  `deploy/config/external-libraries/`

      $ vim deploy/config/external-libraries/modules.yaml

  Under the whitelist section, ensure that your software is mentioned:

      - mypackage

  Now you are ready to create a new branch and a PR with the changes.
  You can check the Jenkins build of your PR [on Blue Ocean](https://bbpcode.epfl.ch/ci/blue/organizations/jenkins/hpc.spack-deployment/activity).
</details>

<details>
  <summary>Q: Why do I have to rebuild the entire world?</summary>

  If you are on the `BB5`, you shouldn't need to.

  As [described here](https://github.com/BlueBrain/spack#building-software-on-bluebrain5),
  one can use the system packages available with an appropriate
  `~/.spack/packages.yaml` and `~/.spack/upstreams.yaml`.
</details>

<details>
  <summary>Q: Why do I see <code>PACK_INSTALL_PREFIX</code> in my install?  Things are failing!</summary>

  As [described here](https://github.com/BlueBrain/spack#building-software-on-bluebrain5),
  the BlueBrain "default" configuration expects that the environment
  variable `$SPACK_INSTALL_PREFIX` is defined.
</details>

<details>
  <summary>Q: Why are the module files not being rebuilt?</summary>

  The `spack module tcl refresh` command respects a blacklists that are in:
  * `~/.spack/modules.yaml`

  Examples from our deployment workflow can be found in:
  * `spack/deploy/configs/applications/modules.yaml`
  * `spack/deploy/configs/serial-libraries/modules.yaml`

  Run `spack --debug module tcl refresh` and search for the module you
  expect to be built.
  Modify the whitelist to have the module built.
</details>

<details>
  <summary>Q: Why is it so slow to interact with the Spack repository on GPFS</summary>

  Make sure the `spack` repo is checked out in a subdirectory of `$HOME`.
  The `spack` repository is quite large, and when it is checked out under a
  `/gpfs/bbp.cscs.ch/project/*` directory, performance can be 10x slower
  than on the SSD provided storage of `$HOME`.
</details>

<details>
  <summary>Q: Is there a binary cache?</summary>

  We currently have a binary cache for central deployment only. As
  universally relocatable binaries are very fragile, we do not support
  binary caches for end-users.

  Please make sure you have setup the correct configurations in:
  * `~/.spack/packages.yaml`
  * `~/.spack/upstreams.yaml`
  to avoid rebuilding packages that have already been build centrally.
</details>

## Pull Requests

<details>
  <summary>Q: How do I reproduce the Travis checks of a Pull Request?</summary>

  You can use the native Spack commands:

      $ spack test
      $ module load unstable py-flake8
      $ spack flake8

  For the latter, you can also use the official Spack QA script:

      $ ./share/spack/qa/run-flake8-tests

  Similarly, the full unit test suite can be run with

      $ ./share/spack/qa/run-unit-tests

  but this requires you to install additional software.
</details>

<details>
  <summary>Q: How do I test modules generated by a Pull Request?</summary>

  If you followed the previous point you should be able to see if your 
  PR was succesfully built [on Blue Ocean](https://bbpcode.epfl.ch/ci/blue/organizations/jenkins/hpc.spack-deployment/activity).

  Then you can log into `BB5` and run the following commands:

      $ module purge
      $ unset MODULEPATH
      $ source /gpfs/bbp.cscs.ch/apps/hpc/jenkins/pulls/xxx/config/modules.sh

  Where `xxx` is the number of your PR.

  At this point you should have the environment ready, so if your module 
  was built correctly you should be able to load it.

      $ module load mypackage

  Now you are ready to test `mypackage`.
</details>

<details>
  <summary>Q: How do I debug my Pull Request?</summary>

  To re-create the environment a Pull Request was built in, let's say #666,
  and debug failures, it is recommended to create a throw-away shell
  environment and execute the following commands.  Note that the parameters
  in the first line correspond to the pull request and the stage you wish
  to debug (as labelled in Jenkins, but lowercase):
  ```
  $ eval $(${SPACK_ROOT}/deploy/pull_env.sh pulls/666 applications)
  $ spacktivate
  $ spack install $(grep <my_failed_piece_of_software> ${HOME}/specs.txt)
  ```
  Evaluating the first line will override local environment variables such
  as the current `$HOME` directory.  *After leaving the shell, this will
  leave a temporary directory behind*, following the pattern `spack_*`.
  Please make sure to delete this directory when not needed any longer.
</details>
