lib/spack/docs/build_systems/luapackage.rst, before:

.. Copyright 2013-2022 Lawrence Livermore National Security, LLC and other
   Spack Project Developers. See the top-level COPYRIGHT file for details.

   SPDX-License-Identifier: (Apache-2.0 OR MIT)

.. _luapackage:

------------
LuaPackage
------------

LuaPackage is a helper for the common case of Lua packages that provide
a rockspec file.  This is not meant to take a rock archive, but to build
a source archive or repository that provides a rockspec, which should cover
most lua packages. In the case a Lua package builds by Make rather than
luarocks, prefer MakefilePackage.

^^^^^^
Phases
^^^^^^

The ``LuaPackage`` base class comes with the following phases:

#. ``preprocess`` - generate ninja files
#. ``install`` - install the project

By default, these phases run:

.. code-block:: console

   $ # preprocess is a noop by default
   $ luarocks make .


Any of these phases can be overridden in your package as necessary.

^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
Important files
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Packages that use the Lua/LuaRocks build system can be identified by the
presence of a ``*.rockspec`` file. This file declares things
like build instructions and dependencies.

It is common for the rockspec file to list the lua version required in
a dependency. The LuaPackage class adds appropriate dependencies on a Lua
implementation, but it is a good idea to specify the version required with
a ``depends_on`` statement.  The block normally will be a table definition like
this:

.. code-block:: lua

   dependencies = {
      "lua >= 5.1",
   }

^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
Build system dependencies
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

All base dependencies are added by the package, but LuaRocks is run to avoid
downloading extra Lua dependencies during build.  If the package needs Lua
libraries outside the standard set, they should be added as dependencies.

If the package requires LuaJit rather than Lua, a ``depends_on("luajit")``
should be used to ensure a LuaJit distribution is used instead of the Lua
interpreter.

^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
Passing arguments to luarocks make
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

If you need to pass any arguments to the ``luarocks make`` call, you can
override the ``luarocks_args`` method like so:

.. code-block:: python

    def luarocks_args(self):
        return ['flag1', 'flag2']

One common use of this is to override warnings or flags for newer compilers, as in:

.. code-block:: python

    def luarocks_args(self):
        return ["CFLAGS='-Wno-error=implicit-function-declaration'"]

^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
External documentation
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

For more information on the LuaRocks build system, see:
https://luarocks.org/

Commit message:

support .src.rock archives, update lpeg and docs
This is a bit of a big change.  Turns out lpeg does not provide a
reasonably buildable source package upstream, so I built out support for
luarocks.org links including auto-building them, and finding,
checksumming and fetching them appropriately.  This is slightly
dangerous because luarocks can download dependencies under us if someone
writes a package the right way, but it's the best way to support very
important but funky packages like this.

Additionally, the `lua-lang` virtual is now versioned so that a package
that requires Lua 5.1 semantics can get any lua, but one that requires
5.2 will only get upstream lua.  May be worth considering using compat53
to provide 5.2 and 5.3 on top of luajit, but that's a lot more work than
I think should go into this right now.

lib/spack/docs/build_systems/luapackage.rst, after:

.. Copyright 2013-2022 Lawrence Livermore National Security, LLC and other
   Spack Project Developers. See the top-level COPYRIGHT file for details.

   SPDX-License-Identifier: (Apache-2.0 OR MIT)

.. _luapackage:

------------
LuaPackage
------------

LuaPackage is a helper for the common case of Lua packages that provide
a rockspec file.  This is not meant to take a rock archive, but to build
a source archive or repository that provides a rockspec, which should cover
most lua packages. In the case a Lua package builds by Make rather than
luarocks, prefer MakefilePackage.

^^^^^^
Phases
^^^^^^

The ``LuaPackage`` base class comes with the following phases:

#. ``preprocess`` - adjust sources or rockspec to fix build
#. ``install`` - install the project

By default, these phases run:

.. code-block:: console

   $ # preprocess is a noop by default
   # If the archive is a .src.rock
   $ luarocks install <archive>.src.rock
   # If the package is a source tarball or repository
   $ luarocks make <name>.rockspec


Any of these phases can be overridden in your package as necessary.

^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
Important files
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Packages that use the Lua/LuaRocks build system can be identified by the
presence of a ``*.rockspec`` file in their sourcetree, or can be fetched as
a source rock archive (``.src.rock``). This file declares things like build
instructions and dependencies, the ``.src.rock`` also contains all code.

It is common for the rockspec file to list the lua version required in
a dependency. The LuaPackage class adds appropriate dependencies on a Lua
implementation, but it is a good idea to specify the version required with
a ``depends_on`` statement.  The block normally will be a table definition like
this:

.. code-block:: lua

   dependencies = {
      "lua >= 5.1",
   }

The LuaPackage class supports source repositories and archives containing
a rockspec and directly downloading source rock files.  It *does not* support
downloading dependencies listed inside a rockspec, and thus does not support
directly downloading a rockspec as an archive.

^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
Build system dependencies
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

All base dependencies are added by the build system, but LuaRocks is run to
avoid downloading extra Lua dependencies during build.  If the package needs
Lua libraries outside the standard set, they should be added as dependencies.

To specify a Lua version constraint but allow all lua implementations, prefer
to use ``depends_on("lua-lang@5.1:5.1.99")`` to express any 5.1 compatible
version. If the package requires LuaJit rather than Lua,
a ``depends_on("luajit")`` should be used to ensure a LuaJit distribution is
used instead of the Lua interpreter. Alternately, if only interpreted Lua will
work ``depends_on("lua")`` will express that.

^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
Passing arguments to luarocks make
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

If you need to pass any arguments to the ``luarocks make`` call, you can
override the ``luarocks_args`` method like so:

.. code-block:: python

    def luarocks_args(self):
        return ['flag1', 'flag2']

One common use of this is to override warnings or flags for newer compilers, as in:

.. code-block:: python

    def luarocks_args(self):
        return ["CFLAGS='-Wno-error=implicit-function-declaration'"]

^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
External documentation
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

For more information on the LuaRocks build system, see:
https://luarocks.org/
