bluebrain/documentation/setup_bb5.md, before:

# Setup for BlueBrain5

On BlueBrain5, installing software and creating modules requires only the
Spack module:

    $ module load spack

To modify packages and update deployment related files,
clone this repository in addition.
The following commands are a good way to get started:

    $ module load spack unstable git
    $ git clone -c feature.manyFiles=true https://github.com/BlueBrain/spack.git
    $ . spack/share/spack/setup-env.sh
    $ cp ${SPACK_ROOT}/bluebrain/sysconfig/bluebrain5/*.yaml ${SPACK_ROOT}/etc/spack

Note that the `git clone` should be executed in a subdirectory of the home
directory on GPFS.
The project directories are backed by a slower GPFS setup, and using a
Spack installation from the project directories will result in a big
performance penalty.

## Customizing the Software Installation Directory

By loading the provided Spack module and sourcing the local Spack
installation **afterwards**,
software and modules will be installed into `${HOME}/spack_install`.

To customise this, use the following commands:

    $ spack config add config:install_tree:root:${HOME}/my_software
    $ spack config add config:module_roots:tcl:${HOME}/my_modules

## Generating Custom Modules

To generate a module for the package `my_package`,
modify the whitelist with the following command:

    $ spack config add modules:tcl:whitelist:my_package

And use

    $ spack module tcl refresh my_package

To generate or update the module.

### Automatically Generate Modules for all Installed Software

Similarly, the module configuration can be overwritten to provide modules
for **all** manually installed software, including new dependencies, by
creating the file `${HOME}/.spack/modules.yaml` with the following
contents:
```yaml
modules:
  tcl:
    whitelist:
      - '@:'
    projections:
      all: '{name}/{version}-{hash:6}'
```
**Note that this may have unintended consequences and is not a supported configuration**.

Commit message:

deploy: remove the need to copy sysconfig on BB5 (#1447)

bluebrain/documentation/setup_bb5.md, after:

# Setup for BlueBrain5

On BlueBrain5, installing software and creating modules requires only the
Spack module:

    $ module load spack

To modify packages and update deployment related files,
clone this repository in addition.
The following commands are a good way to get started:

    $ module load spack unstable git
    $ git clone -c feature.manyFiles=true https://github.com/BlueBrain/spack.git
    $ . spack/share/spack/setup-env.sh

To be fully independent of the module, export the system configuration
path:

    $ export SPACK_SYSTEM_CONFIG_PATH=/gpfs/bbp.cscs.ch/ssd/apps/bsd/config

Note that the `git clone` should be executed in a subdirectory of the home
directory on GPFS.
The project directories are backed by a slower GPFS setup, and using a
Spack installation from the project directories will result in a big
performance penalty.

## Customizing the Software Installation Directory

By loading the provided Spack module and sourcing the local Spack
installation **afterwards**,
software and modules will be installed into `${HOME}/spack_install`.

To customise this, use the following commands:

    $ spack config add config:install_tree:root:${HOME}/my_software
    $ spack config add config:module_roots:tcl:${HOME}/my_modules

## Generating Custom Modules

To generate a module for the package `my_package`,
modify the whitelist with the following command:

    $ spack config add modules:tcl:whitelist:my_package

And use

    $ spack module tcl refresh my_package

To generate or update the module.

### Automatically Generate Modules for all Installed Software

Similarly, the module configuration can be overwritten to provide modules
for **all** manually installed software, including new dependencies, by
creating the file `${HOME}/.spack/modules.yaml` with the following
contents:
```yaml
modules:
  tcl:
    whitelist:
      - '@:'
    projections:
      all: '{name}/{version}-{hash:6}'
```
**Note that this may have unintended consequences and is not a supported configuration**.
